# Pickling & Error Handling in Python
## Introduction
### This week we explored the process of reading, writing, appending data from the memory into a file using a custom function. Python actually has several ways to read data from a file; each option has its own best use case. We also took note of the behavior of the cursor and how it can be baked into certain functions. We also introduced the concept of declaring the variable in python only when you need it. The nuances of python are starting to become clearer. It is more forgiving than some other languages. An example is the declaring of a variable inside or outside of a while loop doesn’t change or isolate it from the rest of the code. But this also can be more confusing, in the choices that you have to make when writing your script in python. You need to make the choices and be consistent, to keep things straight for yourself and others. 

## Working with Data in Text Files
### We were given a variety of examples of how you can read, write, and append data using lists, tuples, and dictionaries in both a “while loop” and a “for loop”. Then we were set free to start to write our own python script from scratch. Though the syntax and organizational theory for python are starting to click for me, the intricacies of how to use the code in practice is still challenging to me. For example, when creating my own function, I begin with the sections of concern and the basic functions that we have been using and have learned thus far. However, as I put the code blocks together the errors in my code when I try to run it are difficult for me to fix. Using the debugger is not always clear on what the error is.
## Binary Files – “Pickling”
### We also learned about the best binary file code block “pickle.dump” which made me laugh out loud. Turns out it’s an existing module that allows you to read and write to binary files. Binary files are another option for working with data in a file. Binary files cannot be opened with a program like notebook or word because they are obscured or unreadable. They are also smaller in their space requirements. We were then tasked with researching this on our own. Binary files must be converted by a program to make it readable by a human. You can also load the data form the file in python and then it is turned back into readable data in memory that then can be written to a text file.
## Try / Except – Error Handling
### Another useful trick for writing our own scripts that we had touched on before, was the use of the Try/Except block of code. This is useful for when you have humans entering data and they can potentially break things by putting in bizarre inputs. The example given was dividing by zero. You can nest the unique error options within the except sections of the code. The “Exception” block that is more generalized will capture all errors and so needs to go last after the other nested except blocks specific to a class. This error handling can be useful if you can anticipate the kind of inputs that will possibly generate an error. Luckily the main ones are already in the documentation for you.
